arininfo(1) -- ARINr Whois Command
==================================

## SYNOPSIS

arininfo [options] QUERY_VALUE

## DESCRIPTION

This program uses ARIN's Whois-RWS(7) RESTful API to query ARIN's Whois database.
The general usage is "arininfo QUERY_VALUE" where the type of QUERY_VALUE influences the
type of query performed. This program will attempt to guess the type of QUERY_VALUE,
but the QUERY_VALUE type maybe explicitly set using the `-t` option. Queries for data
related to the QUERY_VALUE may be specified using the `-r` option (i.e. the reverse DNS
delegations related to a network).

In certain cases, Organization handles (orghandle), also knows as organization ids,
can be properly determined. This occurs when the Organization handle ends with _-z_
or with _-xxx_ where xxx is a number. As a shortcut for Organization handles that do
not match these cases, a _-o_ can be appended to signify that it is an Organization 
handle.

The following are other criteria for determining the type of the QUERY_VALUE when
the `-t` option is not given:

  * If the QUERY_VALUE is simply a number, it is assumed to be an Autonomous
    System Number.

  * If the QUERY_VALUE is a number prepended with "AS", it is assumed to be an
    Autonomous System Number.

  * If the QUERY_VALUE begins with "NET-" or "NET6-" it is assumed to be a
    network handle.

  * If the QUERY_VALUE appears to be an IPv4 or IPv6 address, then it is assumed
    to be an IP address.

  * If the QUERY_VALUE ends in "in-addr.arpa" or "ip6.arpa", it is assumed to
    be a reverse DNS delegation point.

  * If the QUERY_VALUE appears to be a proper name, it is assumed to be a name
    of a Point of Contact.

The QUERY_VALUE can also be a result value from a previous query if it ends with
an equal sign ("="). Consider the following tree output:

1= NET-192-136-136-0-1 ( 192.136.136.0 - 192.136.136.255 )     
   `--- 1. Reverse DNS Delegations     
        `--- 1= 136.136.192.in-addr.arpa.

A QUERY_VALUE of "1=1=1=" would be a shortcut for requerying for
136.136.192.in-addr.arpa. The character between the numbers can also be a
period character ("."). So "1.1.1=" would be equivalent.

## OPTIONS

  * `-r`, `--related` TYPE   
    Query for the specified type related to the query value:
    `nets` for query for the related networks, `dels` for query for the 
    reverse DNS delegations, `orgs` for query for the related organizations,
    `pocs` for query for the related points of contact, `asns` for query for 
    the related autonomous system numbers

  * `-t`, `--type` TYPE   
    Specify type of the query value:
    `nethandle` for network handle, `pochandle` for point of contact handle,
    `orghandle` for organization handle, `ip4addr` for IPv4 address,
    `ip6addr` for IPv6 address, `ip4cidr` for IPv4 cidr block, `ip6cidr` for
    IPv6 cidr block, `asnumber` for autonomous system number, `delegation` for
    reverse DNS delegation, `pocname` for name of a point of contact,
    `orgname` for name of an organization, `result` for result from a previous query

  * `--pft` YES|NO|TRUE|FALSE  
    Use a PFT style query.

  * `--cidr` LESS|EXACT|MORE  
    Type of matching to use for CIDR queries.

  * `--substring` YES|NO|TRUE|FALSE  
    Use substring matching for name searches.

  * `--details` YES|NO|TRUE|FALSE  
    Query for extra details.

  * `-U`, `--url` URL  
    The base URL of the Whois-RWS(7) system.

  * `--cache-expiry` SECONDS  
    Age in seconds of items in the cache to be considered expired.

  * `--cache` YES|NO|TRUE|FALSE  
    Controls if the cache is used or not.

  * `--messages` MESSAGE_LEVEL  
    Specify one of the message levels: `none` for no messages are to be output,
    `some` for some messages to be output, or `all` for all messages to be output.

  * `--messages-out` FILE  
    Specifies that messages are to be written to the given file.

  * `--data` DATA_AMOUNT  
    Specifies the amount of data to be output. Use of of: `terse`, `normal`,
    or `extra`.
 
  * `--data-out` FILE  
    File where data is to be written if specified.

  * `-V`  
    Equivalent to `--messages all` and `--data extra`

  * `-h`  
    Displays help.

## EXAMPLES

  * `arininfo kosters` queries for a POC with the last name of "Kosters".

  * `arininfo 2=` queries for the second value in a result from the previous query.

  * `arininfo -t orghandle arin` queries for organizations with the handle "arin".

  * `arininfo arin-o` is the same as above.

  * `arininfo 192.136.136.51` queries for the most specific network enclosing
    192.136.136.51.
    

## SEE ALSO

arincli(7), arinutil(1), Whois-RWS(7)
