rdns(1) -- ARINcli Reverse DNS
==============================

## SYNOPSIS

rdns [options] --edit DELEGATION_NAME  
rdns [options] --zonefile ZONE_FILE1 [ZONE_FILE2, ....]  

## DESCRIPTION

This program uses ARIN's Reg-RWS(7) service to modify reverse DNS delegations.

There are two actions specified with either the --edit or --zonefile options.

The --edit option requires the name of a reverse DNS delegation name (or zone) as an
argument. It will fetch that delegation from ARIN and allow the user to edit it
in a YAML file and then modify the delegation in ARIN's database if the YAML
file has been modified.

When the editor is invoked, if no changes are made (i.e. the editor quits
without saving), then the action will be aborted.

The --zonefile option takes one or more zone file names as arguments. It will parse
the zone files and modify the corresponding reverse DNS delegations based on the
zone files. If the --no-verify is not specified, the delegation information will be
put into a YAML file and the user will be allowed to edit it before the delegations
are modified.

Unlike the --edit action, when the --zonefile action invokes the editor, the
actions will be performed even if no changes are made.

## OPTIONS

  * `--edit DELEGATION_NAME`
    Retrieves the reverse DNS information for editing, and then submits the
    modifications.

  * `--zonefile ZONEFILES...`
    Parses DNS zone files and modifies the reverse DNS delegation information
    accordingly.

  * `--no-verify
    When used in conjuction with the --zonefile action, it instructs the program
    to bypass the editing/verification phase and to modify the reverse DNS
    information immediately after parsing.

  * `-A`, `--apikey` API_KEY
    The API_KEY to use. API Keys are associated with ARIN Online accounts and
    are the methods used for authentication in Reg-RWS(7).

  * `-U`, `--url` URL  
    The base URL of the Reg-RWS(7) system.

  * `--messages` MESSAGE_LEVEL  
    Specify one of the message levels: `none` for no messages are to be output,
    `some` for some messages to be output, or `all` for all messages to be output.

  * `--messages-out` FILE  
    Specifies that messages are to be written to the given file.

  * `--data` DATA_AMOUNT  
    Specifies the amount of data to be output. Use of of: `terse`, `normal`,
    or `extra`.
 
  * `--data-out` FILE  
    File where data is to be written if specified.

  * `-V`  
    Equivalent to `--messages all` and `--data extra`

  * `-h`  
    Displays help.

## SEE ALSO

arincli(7), Reg-RWS(7)
