ticket(1) -- ARINr ticket Command
=================================

## SYNOPSIS

ticket [options] --check [TICKET_NUMBER]  
ticket [options] --update [TICKET_NUMBER]  
ticket [options] --show [TICKET_NUMBER] [DETACH_FILE]  
ticket [options] --remove [TICKET_NUMBER]  
ticket [options] --message[=MESSAGE_FILE] TICKET_NUMBER  

## DESCRIPTION

This program uses ARIN's Reg-RWS(7) RESTful API to download tickets, display tickets, and add
messages to tickets.

The `--check` command option checks the internal ticket database against data in Reg-RWS(7) and
displays ticket numbers for any tickets that have been updated. If a ticket number is given, then
only that ticket will be checked. If no ticket number is given, then all tickets will be checked.

The `--update` command option downloads tickets to the internal ticket database from Reg-RWS(7).
If a ticket number is given, then only that ticket will be downloaded. If no ticket number is given,
then all tickets will be downloaded. By default, tickets or messages or attachments will not be
downloaded if they have already been downloaded or do not need to be updated. However, the
`--force-update` option may be used to force downloading when an update would not do so otherwise.

The `--show` command option displays tickets from the internal ticket database. If no ticket number
is given, a tree summary of all the tickets in the database will be displayed. If a ticket number
is given, a tree summary for that specific ticket will be display along with all messages on that
ticket.

The `--remove` command option removes tickets from the internal ticket database. If no ticket
number is given, all tickets will be removed. If a ticket number is given, just that ticket will be
removed.

The `--message` command option sends a message to Reg-RWS(7) to attach to a ticket. The `-f` or
`--file` parameters can be used to specify a file to be attached as the message. If
no message file is specified, an editor will be invoked so that the user can create the message.

## TREE ADDRESSES

All the commands will produce a tree of results in the same way as arininfo(1). Numbered items in
the tree with a trailing equal sign ("=") are addressable. Consider the following tree:

1= 20121018-X1  
   |--- 1= How does Whois Work  
   |--- 2= Ticket Status Update  
   |--- 3= Ticket Status Update  
   |--- 4= IP Addresses/AS Numbers - test - ANSWERED   
   |--- 5= Ticket Status Update    
   |--- 6= Ticket Status Update    
   |--- 7= (no subject)    
   |    |--- 1= sac-055-en.pdf    
   |--- 8= IP Addresses/AS Numbers - test - ANSWERED   
   |    |--- 1= my_cat.jpg    
   |    |--- 2= kitty_litter_disposal.pdf    
   |--- 9= Ticket Status Update   
   |-- 10= Ticket Status Update    
   `-- 11= (no subject)    

In the above example, 1= is a tree address for ticket 20121018-X1. Nodes in the tree can be
separated by an ("=") sign or a dot ("."). Therefore 1.1= addresses the first message of ticket
20121018-X1, 1.2= address the second message of that ticket, and so on.

When using `-s` or `--show` to view a ticket, narrowing down a single message on the ticket
will display only that message. In the example above `ticket -s 1.1=` would display only the
message with the subject "How does Whois Work".

Attachments can be copied out of the ticket by narrowing the tree address to an attachment.
For example, `ticket -s 1.7.1=` would create a copy of sac-055-en.pdf in the current directory.
The destination name and location can be changed by adding a trailing file name. For example,
`ticket -s 1.7.1= /tmp/some.pdf` sound copy the attachment sac-055-en.pdf to a file named
some.pdf in the /tmp directory.

## OPTIONS

  * `-c`, `--check` [TICKET_NUMBER]  
    Checks for updated tickets. If no ticket number is given, all tickets are
    checked.

  * `-u`, `--update` [TICKET_NUMBER]  
    Updates tickets. If no ticket number is given, all tickets are updated.

  * `--force-update`  
    Forces an update not to skip the downloading of any attachments or messages
    or tickets.

  * `-s`, `--show` [TICKET_NUMBER]  
    Shows ticket information. If no ticket number is given, a summary tree of all
    tickets will be shown.

  * `-m`, `--message` TICKET_NUMBER
    Sends a message to be attached to a ticket.

  * `-f`, `--file`  
    Uses a file instead of invoking an editor for the message to attach to a
    ticket.

  * `-A`, `--apikey` API_KEY  
    The API_KEY to use. API Keys are associated with ARIN Online accounts and
    are the methods used for authentication in Reg-RWS(7).

  * `-U`, `--url` URL  
    The base URL of the Reg-RWS(7) system.

  * `--messages` MESSAGE_LEVEL  
    Specify one of the message levels: `none` for no messages are to be output,
    `some` for some messages to be output, or `all` for all messages to be output.

  * `--messages-out` FILE  
    Specifies that messages are to be written to the given file.

  * `--data` DATA_AMOUNT  
    Specifies the amount of data to be output. Use of of: `terse`, `normal`,
    or `extra`.
 
  * `--data-out` FILE  
    File where data is to be written if specified.

  * `-V`  
    Equivalent to `--messages all` and `--data extra`

  * `-h`  
    Displays help.

## EXAMPLES

  * `ticket 20121018-X1` shows the ticket 20121018-X1.

  * `ticket -s 20121018-X1` does the same as above.

  * `ticket -s 1=` shows the ticket in the tree addressed by 1=.

  * `ticket -u` updates all the tickets in the internal ticket database.

## SEE ALSO

arinr(7), arinutil(1), arininfo(1), Reg-RWS(7)
