<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>ARINr v.0.1.0 Manual</title><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL-NS Stylesheets V1.76.1"/></head><body><div class="book" title="ARINr v.0.1.0 Manual"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="d0e2"/>ARINr v.0.1.0 Manual</h1></div><div><div class="author"><h3 class="author"><span class="orgname">American Registry for Internet Numbers</span><div class="address"><p><br/>
                <span class="city">Chantilly, VA</span><br/>
                <span class="street">3635 Concorde Parkway, Suite 200</span><br/>
                <span class="postcode">20151</span><br/>
                <span class="country">USA</span><br/>
            </p></div><code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:arin-tech-discuss@arin.net">arin-tech-discuss@arin.net</a>&gt;</code></h3><code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:arin-tech-discuss@arin.net">arin-tech-discuss@arin.net</a>&gt;</code></div></div></div><hr/></div><div class="toc"><p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p><dl><dt><span class="part"><a href="#d0e25">I. Background and Installation</a></span></dt><dd><dl><dt><span class="chapter"><a href="#d0e28">1. Interacting with ARIN</a></span></dt><dd><dl><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e31">The Different Protocols and Services</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e46">What is ARINr?</a></span></dt></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl></div><div class="part" title="Part I. Background and Installation"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="d0e25"/>Part I. Background and Installation</h1></div></div></div><div class="toc"><p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p><dl><dt><span class="chapter"><a href="#d0e28">1. Interacting with ARIN</a></span></dt><dd><dl><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e31">The Different Protocols and Services</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e46">What is ARINr?</a></span></dt></dl></dd></dl></div><div class="chapter" title="Chapter 1. Interacting with ARIN"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title"><a id="d0e28"/>Chapter 1. Interacting with ARIN</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p><dl><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e31">The Different Protocols and Services</a></span></dt><dt><span class="section"><a href="#d0e46">What is ARINr?</a></span></dt></dl></div><div class="section" title="The Different Protocols and Services"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="d0e31"/>The Different Protocols and Services</h2></div></div></div><p>Registering information within ARIN's system has been traditionally
                    accomplished with plain text templates send in via email. Users were expected to
                    download the templates from ARIN's website, fill them out appropriately, and
                    send them in. This is a process that was inherited from the InterNIC, the
                    registry for IP addresses before ARIN was formed to take on that
                    responsibility.</p><p>The process of using email templates was also used by the InterNIC for the
                    registration of domain names, a function now conducted by domain registries and
                    registrars (depending on the top-level domain in question). Email templates are
                    no longer used for domain registration.</p><p>Public views into the ARIN's registration data has been traditionally
                    accomplished using the NICNAME/WHOIS protocol. This protocol is currently
                    defined by RFC 3912, but dates back before the definition of IPv4.
                    NICNAME/WHOIS, or just WHOIS as stated by RFC 3912, is in use today by all of
                    the Regional Internet Registries as well as domain registries and registrars and
                    the IANA.</p><p>In recent years, ARIN has been adding RESTful web services on top of the
                    traditional email templates and WHOIS services. These RESTful web services are
                    intended to take advantage of more mainstream technologies commonly found in web
                    infrastrucutes throughout the Internet. Because RESTful web services re-use the
                    technology set of mainstream web infrastructure, programmers can easily find
                    libraries with which to build tools.</p><p>ARIN currently offers two distinct RESTful web services: Whois-RWS and
                    Reg-RWS. Whois-RWS is a RESTful web service for querying and viewing the pubic
                    data in ARIN's registration database and is analogous to ARIN's traditional
                    WHOIS service. Reg-RWS is a more complicated service for registering and
                    administering information in ARIN's registration database and is analogous to
                    ARIN's traditional email templates.</p><p>Reg-RWS limits interactions to only those resources, IP networks and AS
                    numbers, and administrative objects for which a user has authority over. This
                    authority flows from the linkages between a users web account in ARIN Online to
                    Points of Contact (POCs) and the linkages between POCs and organizations holding
                    resources. Authentication of users in Reg-RWS requires an API-KEY, which users
                    can generate in ARIN Online. ARIN also offers an Operational Testing and
                    Evaluation environment (OT&amp;E) for Reg-RWS, an environment with the same data
                    intended to help development against Reg-RWS without compromising data in the
                    production registration system.</p></div><div class="section" title="What is ARINr?"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="d0e46"/>What is ARINr?</h2></div></div></div><p>ARINr is a set of Ruby scripts that utilize both the Whois-RWS service and the
                    Reg-RWS service. Because ARIN's RESTful web services share common code and
                    infrastructure with ARIN Online, these scripts were created using completely
                    seperate tooling to help expose issues with the RESTful web services that may
                    not be obvious to developers familiar with and developing with standard ARIN
                    tools.</p><p>However, ARIN believes these tools could also be of value to the general
                    public and has therefore released them with a
                    BSD
                    open source license.</p><p>The ARINr script 'arinw' is designed to work against Whois-RWS, while the rest
                    of the main scripts are designed to work against Reg-RWS; they can even be used
                    against the Reg-RWS OT&amp;E system.</p><p>At the time of this writing, the ARINr scripts should be considered "alpha"
                    quality. A lot of functionality is still missing from the scripts, and ARIN has
                    not conducted any qualified degree of quality assurance against them.</p></div></div></div></div></body></html>